02-Night-Nurse-1931-review.md, before:

# Night Nurse (1931) Film Review



---

One of the most interesting things is seeing a 1930s hospital. Hospitals may be common in movies, but we hardly get an inside look at the inner-workings of them. I can't say how accurate things are, but it is interesting to see surgery being performed. An air bag is attached to the patient's mouth. When the patient stops breathing, emergency oxygen is used, but it is rolled out slowly.

Even nurse training is interesting. It is like a convent. The nurses are forced to live there and follow strict rules. There is a creepy induction ceremony. 

A many only known as the bootlegger arrives at the hospital. He becomes a potential love interest. He steals milk to make an emergency milk bath. The funny thing is that this guy with so many connections didn't know you can just get milk at a grocery store.

The movie feels like two combined together with both of them being great. The first half is about training to become a nurse while the second deals with heavier subject matter such as malnutrition and alcoholism. Regardless of what is happening, Barbara Stanwyck is determined to get the job done.

---

Commit message:

#content for Night Nurse. ~630 words. Total: ~1580

02-Night-Nurse-1931-review.md, after:

# Night Nurse (1931) Film Review

An opening POV shot of an ambulance rushing to a hospital shows that *Night Nurse* is going to be a wild ride. From nursing school to night shifts, *Night Nurse* feels like two distinct movies with the same characters. The movie is able to shift to heavier subject matter such as malnutrition and alcoholism thanks to an excellent performance by Barbara Stanwyck. Her behavior may have been provocative in 1931, but she portrays a nurse that cares about her patients and is willing to put a lot on the line to save them. *Night Nurse* is a compelling drama that is made even more interesting by showcasing the inner-workings of hospitals during prohibition.

Lora Hart, portrayed by Barbara Stanwyck, applies to be a nurse at a hospital. She is initially rejected for not meeting a basic requirement, graduating high school. On her way out of the hospital, Lora accidentally drops her purse and is helped by Dr. Bell, chief of staff. He waives the requirement and Lora's adventures as a nurse in training begin. Lora is paired with Maloney, played by Joan Blondell. The two get along quickly and end up sharing a bed together after a late night on the town. It appears that nurses live at the hospital. There is a strict curfew. A chant during an induction ceremony almost makes it seem like a convent.

While Lora's nursing training may seem creepy by today's standards, there actually may be some horrible things happening involving other doctors in town. Lora is assigned to look after two kids in a mansion and discovers that they are suffering from malnutrition. Even the kids are complaining that they are hungry. The members of the household including Nick, a chauffeur played by Clark Gable, are unwilling to seek further medical care. The mother of these children is an alcoholic and is unable to take proper care of anyone. Lora is determined to get the medication attention that the kids desperately need even after being assaulted by the chauffeur for suggesting it.

Lora's ethics come into question here. During her training she meets a bootlegger with a gunshot wound. By law she is required to report the injury to the police. Being the friendly person that she is, she chooses to let things slide. The bootlegger, known as "bootlegger", expresses his gratitude by sending her gifts and later, offering his help by saying that he knows some people. Something that I found funny about the bootlegger is that he knows about as many people as Rick Harrison from *Pawn Stars* but does not know where to get milk. Her early actions with the bootlegger show that she is willing to bend the rules, but when later faced with having to pump the stomach of an alcoholic without a doctor's order, she refuses. Emotionally charged decisions ultimately put her short career as a nurse on the line, but she is determined to do what she thinks is morally right regardless of the cost.

*Night Nurse* sure packs a lot in for a 70 minute movie. It is disappointing that Joan Blondell's character is mostly ignored in the second half of the film after building such a solid relationship with Lora. The change in tone in the second half is abrupt, but not entirely out of place. The first half did have some mature moments such as a surgery that was a failure. Why was the emergency oxygen kept so far away? Why was it rolled out so slowly? Seeing older medical practices keeps the first half engaging before the movie turns into a darker drama. Either way Barbara Stanwyck provides a great lead performance and it is satisfying watching her stand up for herself. If you have the means of watching it, *Night Nurse* is worth checking out.
